# Hackathon2024-Team-Shiny

For the 2024 Bio-data Club Hackathon, the *Provider Recognition Program* and *Shiny App for efficiently screening and matching patients for research studies* teams will be combining forces to produce one amazing app that can achieve both objectives.

## Shiny App for efficiently screening and matching patients for research studies.

### Project Lead: [Nathan Van Bibber](Nathan.VanBibber@moffitt.org)

**Background**: 
The Coghill Lab and Islam Lab (Cancer Epidemiology Program) prospectively screen
HIV+ patients for research study eligibility using weekly clinic appointment
data from the Capstone Department Appointment Resource (DAR) and Cerner. A
comparison group of HIV-uninfected research participants must also be identified
for these studies, matched to the enrolled HIV+ patients on age, diagnosis, and
other clinical data. Given the high volume of patient appointments each week
(~38,000 appointments/week), the study teams need to identify efficient methods
to screen HIV-uninfected patients with select demographic and diagnosis
characteristics using the existing DAR reports.
 
**Project Significance**: 
Our Shiny app will enable research teams to efficiently import and dynamically
filter patient appointment data to identify eligible patients for their research
studies. It will allow anybody to easily upload data then quickly and easily
find potential matches without needing to be proficient in R (or any other
programming language) and eliminate the need for analysis software to be
installed on each team member’s machine; thus, reducing technical overhead all
allowing researchers more time to conduct their study.
 

***

## Provider Recognition Program

### Project Lead: [Deniece Williams](Deniece.Williams@moffitt.org)

**Background**: 
The data analysts that work on the Patient Experience Optimization team analyze
and distribute the summarized results of patient survey data.  In addition to
quantitative measures of patient satisfaction, we also receive open-ended
responses to questions about the patient experience during their visit to our
hospital.  Press Ganey uses a NLP to assess the comment sentiment and classify
it as positive, negative, mixed or neutral.  The goal of this project is to
develop a streamlined approach to recognize named providers within  positive
patient comments. Once the electronic health record (EHR) verifies a match
between the patient, the program and the named provider, the comments will be
distributed to the provider’s inbox through an automated process.
 
**Project Significance**: 
While most comments of the comments received are positive, they are often
overshadowed by the negative ones.  Despite efforts to highlight and forward
along positive comments, many providers are unaware of the appreciation their
patients have for them and their work.  Our team, currently, has no process in
place that would allow us to automate this process.  Instead, we rely on
manually searching through the 1000s of comments we receive on a weekly basis
and then posting on an intranet page with hopes that those that are mentioned
will see them.
 

***
